# AWS

## What is AWS
Amazon Web Services is Amazon's cloud service provider. Any time you hear someone talking about "the cloud" in the software field they are talking about hardware/software that someone else provides over the internet. AWS has become one of the premier cloud providers in modern times alongside Microsoft Azure and Google's Google Cloud Platform.

## AWS RDS
One of the services AWS provides is their Relational Database Services (RDS). Using this service we can create relational databases and persist our information in them. We will be using AWS RDS in your P0 and beyond to persist information. For training we will be using a Postgres database provided by AWS RDS.

## AWS EC2 & EBS
Amazon's Elastic Cloud Compute (EC2) service provides users with virtual machines (windows or unix based) of varying degrees of computing power and memory. Instead of having to acquire your own hardware you can requisition Amazon's and pay them a fraction of what it would cost to acquire the hardware yourself. There are many benefits of using this service:
- autoscaling
    - Amazon can provide more memory/computing power if your application requires it (think heavy amounts of traffic) and conversely, it can scale down the resources provided in order to lower your overall costs
- security
    - by setting up robust security groups and Identity and Access Management(IAM) roles you can be confident your application is running in a safe and secure environment
    - also, due to not hosting the hardware yourself, you do not need to pay for any physical security: Amazon handles this
- persistent storage
    - your data can be saved in persistent storage called Elastic Block Storage (EBS), so even if you shut down your virtual machines for a while, when you are ready to spin them back up you can load up your data saved in an EBS volume and start working right where you left off
- Accessibility control
    - your instances can be networked in your Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), and you can determine whether you wish for the instance to be public facing or not
- AMIs
    - There are a host of preconfigured Amazon Machine Images (AMIs) that provide pre-configured hardware and software options. This allows you to choose the right operating system and pre-loaded software to fit your needs

## EC2
Fundamentally, AWS EC2 service provides "compute capacity" via instances. These instances have CPU, RAM, and disk storage available to them which is determined by you when you create the instance. A common practice is to use an Amazon Machine Image (AMI) that has pre-set configurations (such as the operating system, starting CPU/RAM, etc). EC2 is "Elastic" in that AWS allows you to auto-scale your instance's CPU, RAM, and Disk needs depening on the traffic you receive.

The common way of accessing your instance is to connect via "Secure Shell" protocol (SSH). You will need to make use of a key generated by AWS (typically when you first create an instance) in order to access your instance.
```cli
ssh -i "{key file goes here}" ec2-user@{public DNS}
```
Note that ec2-user is the default user created for an instance, you can change this when you first create your instance.

## EBS
Elastic Block Storage (EBS) is Amazon's storage service option. AWS offers various kinds of "volumes" (storage options) that can meet different needs. For instance, you may use a general purpose volume to save your work on an EC2 instance. Upon terminating the instance, you can attach the volume to a new instance to go right back to working on the same project (saving a backup of an instance is called creating a "snapshot"). On the other hand, if you need to archive data with infrequent interactions with the data then the "cold storage" option would be a better choice. These volumes cost less to use, but are not optimized for frequent interactions. These are just a few of the storage options provided by EBS.